hi this is tom greenwood from sydney
portraits calm a you and greenwood
photos now in this clip i'm going to
provide 12 tips for anyone who's really
starting to get serious about
photography now they're quite general
and also quite subjective but without
further ado let's get stuck in one it's
not all about the gear now equipment is
important but don't get obsessed by it
great photos has been achieved even with
cheap plastic cameras these are some of
my favorite shots from my early days and
they were all taken with a 200-dollar
zoom lens - it's all about light now
photography is really all about light
and it's worth taking time to understand
how light really works now it's not
actually that complicated and it will
stand you in such good stead as you
develop as a photographer 3 learn your
f-stops ISO and shutter speed now
f-stops ISO and shutter speed are if you
like the Holy Trinity of photography
it's a bit like learning your times
table now this basic knowledge will set
you apart from the vast majority of
other photographers believe me great
things will follow for big is not best
now many photographers starting out and
have to say particularly young male ones
can't wait to get their hands on the
biggest camera and biggest lenses
available now big does not mean best
this is my 70 to 300 lenses so fair size
chunky thing and it's a lovely lens but
to be quite honest I'm probably happy
using my 50 mil lens which is nice and
small nice and compact and the images I
get from this I probably every bit of
satisfying
from this five get a prime lens now it's
really worth getting at least one fixed
or prime lens in this case I'll go back
to my 50 millimeter lens this one's a
bit more expensive but you can get a
perfectly good 50ml lens for about $100
so what you gain from a prime lens a
prime lens tends to have a wide aperture
maybe f2f1 point 8 and that gives you
that beautiful shallow depth of focus
lovely blurry background very nice you
also get a sharpness and an image
quality that is difficult to get with
the zoom lens can be a bit subtle but as
you develop as a photographer you'll
really be able to see the difference 6
use the aperture sweet spot now if your
lens isn't that great perhaps it's a
cheap zoom lens try using it between f/8
and f/11 now that's really the sweet
spot in terms of sharpness now without
going into lens optics f/8 to f/11 it's
sort of the mid-range of the aperture
and it gives you really sharp shots so
if your lens is a bit soft go for the
f/8 to f/11 zone 7 getting close now
most of the images I love particularly
images of people were shot close to the
subject if the photographer is close the
viewer feels close to 8
don't let your zoom replace your legs
now your decision on what focal length
to use should depend on what's best for
the shot
so don't zoom in when you can get a
better shot by just moving closer 9 get
dirty now be prepared to do physically
whatever it takes to get the shot you
want it might mean crawling around on
the floor might mean climbing a tree
whatever now for this shot I was neck
deep in muddy water it was the only way
to get the image I wanted
and it was also really fun 10 organize
your archive now when I started out as a
photographer I was very impatient all I
wanted to do was go out and shoot so I
come home and just dump the photos
willy-nilly on my computer of course
later when I came back and wanted to
find a certain image it was a complete
nightmare my photos were a mess they're
all over the place
so it's really important to have a safe
place to put your photos to organize
them properly and then to back them up
if you'd like more on this please click
here for my video on organizing your
images 11 use batch editing software
when you're coming back to edit your
photos use a batch editing software such
as Lightroom or aperture now it's really
worth taking a few hours to properly
learn the software before you leap in
and I guarantee you'll save you days or
weeks of time in the future when it
comes to Photoshop use it for that
really really special image don't use it
for a whole bunch of images twelve be
hard on yourself by all means appreciate
the great things about your shots but
it's more important to develop a
critical eye and to work out what could
have been done better and how you can
improve next time to state the obvious
learn by your mistakes
so those are my twelve photo tips I hope
something in there is useful for you
now please feel free to subscribe and
leave a comment if you like and until
next time bye bye